Mysql Views

MySQL processes queries against the views in two ways

1) MySQL creates a temporary table based on the view definition statement and executes the incoming query on this temporary table

2) MySQL combines the incoming query with the query defined the view into one query and executes the combined query


Advantages

1) A database view allows you to simplify complex queries
2) A database view helps limit data access to specific users.
3) A database view provides extra security layer.

Disadvantages

1) Querying data from a database view can be slow
2) Tables dependency: you create a view based on underlying tables of the a database. 
   Whenever you change the structure of those tables that view associated with, you have to change the view as well.
3) Cannot use subqueries in the FROM clause of the SELECT statement defined the view before MySQL 5.7.7


MySQL view’s restrictions

You cannot create an index on a view.
Views and tables share the same namespace, therefore, a view and a table cannot have the same name.
Views can be updatable i.e. you can use the INSERT or UPDATE statement to insert or update rows of the base table through the updatable view

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mysql Indexes

    Indexes in MySQL are physical objects that are used to enforce uniqueness in a table

    Indexes help in speeding up query processing.

    Like tables, indexes also consist of rows and columns but it stores the data in a 
    logically sorted manner to improve search performance.

    Like a telephone directory where they are usually sorted last_name, first_name and potentially other criteria (e.g. zip code)

    Different types of Indexes in MySQL

        A) Clustered indexes

            Indexes can also be used to optimize sort operations (order by) and physically arrange related data closely together.
            This is process is called clustering of data.

            Accessing a row through the clustered index is fast because the row data is on the same page where the index 
            search leads. 

            If a table is large, the clustered index architecture often saves a disk I/O operation, 
            when compared to storage organizations that stores row data using a different page from the index record.

        B) Non clustered indexes

        C) Primary Key

        D) Normal Index
        
        E) Full Text Index

        
